[Music]
the ancient Stoics argued that living a
virtuous life means living in accordance
with nature
now what did they exactly mean by this
are we to follow our instincts like
animals do or perhaps should we live a
nature friendly lifestyle in this video
I explore what the ancient Stoics were
up to the early stoic Zeno of Citian was
the founder of the stoic philosophical
school unfortunately not much is left of
his legacy except a series of quotations
the Byzantine scholar Johannes Tobias
who lived in the 5th century compiled a
series of valuable extracts from Greek
authors in which you wrote about stoic
ethics and the way Zeno proposed them
simply put everything that is part of
being consists of things that are good
bad or indifferent which I have
discussed before in the video the three
pillars of stoicism explained so this is
what's Tobias told us and I quote good
art of following stores of item wisdom
moderation justice courage and all that
is virtue or participates in virtue that
are the following source of item folly
in temperance injustice cowardice and
all that is vice or participates in
advice and quote now the so called
indifference are either preferred or dis
preferred but do not necessarily lead to
happiness or misery examples of these
are death looks money reputation and so
forth
the Stoics are living in accordance with
nature as the ultimate goal and
equivalent to a virtuous life since
virtue leads to happiness people who
live in conflict with nature are not
happy this is all great but it's still a
bit unclear how we actually put this
into practice what do the Stoics mean
with nature and how do we as human
beings live in agreement with it well
there are different explanations and
since the accounts of the early Stoics
are gone for the most part we have to
look at other authors
to clear this up diogenes laërtius a
biographer of greek philosophers pointed
out that with nature the Stoics meant
the nature of all things also called the
nature of the whole and human nature as
a part of this whole he sums it up like
this and a quote therefore the end turns
out to be living in agreement with
nature taken as living in accordance in
both with one's own nature and with the
nature of the whole and quote when we
look at our planet we see that
everything has its own characteristics
water for example flows to the lowest
point nourishes whatever it encounters
along the way but in itself doesn't
really have a thinking capacity
nevertheless water is part of a system
and I think that we can agree that it
performs its duties quite well now
plants have that place too in nature
they produce oxygen for example or serve
as food for animals these animals in
their turn can serve as food for other
animals as well as for human beings
the Stoics observed that human beings
are like animals naturally inclined to
self-preservation
that arises from what Zeno called ok
uses ok osseous signifies self-ownership
or the appropriation to the individuals
or species needs we hoard resources
protect ourselves and loved ones take
care of our bodies find shelter etc but
what distinguishes us from animals is a
rational thinking capacity this is a
huge game changer an example humans as
well as animals have a natural tendency
to be hostile towards the unknown
because it could be a threat in humans
we can often see hostility towards
people from another country with
different facial features a different
skin color a different language and so
on even though we might experience an
urge to be hostile towards the unknown
we also have a choice to approach the
urge rationally and decide if we should
act upon it or not in the same way we
approach a sexual desire or the sudden
wish to punch our boss after he snaps at
us for now
reason animals can't rationalize the
natural urges so we can't really blame
them for acting upon them all the time
but for humans it's quite another story
we surely can rationalize our natural
urges and choose to do what's right
whatever that may be instead of letting
instincts dictate us so how can we do
this well Marcus Aurelius was very clear
about that and I quote human life
duration momentary nature changeable
perception dim condition of body
decaying soul spinning around fortune
unpredictable lasting Fame uncertain sum
up the body and its parts are a river
the soul a dream and mist
life is a warfare and a journey far from
home lasting reputation is oblivion then
what can guide us only philosophy and
quote the Roman Emperor wrote quite a
lot in his meditations about living in
agreement with nature and that we should
always seek to define what our nature is
and how it fits best within the bigger
picture so who are we who am i how do I
relate to the world when we look at
humanity it's clear that we all have our
strengths and weaknesses some are better
with their hands some are better with
their brains we could therefore say that
we are not created equal
but that doesn't mean that there isn't a
way for everyone to be valuable to the
whole also this means that all people
have access to a happy life no matter
what hardships they face and how bad the
hand is they are dealt so living in
accordance with nature is not just
living a virtuous life but also living a
life at suit you best
as the human being you are as Marcus
Aurelius stated don't ever forget these
things the nature of the world my nature
how I relate to the world what
proportion of it I make up that you are
part of nature and no one can prevent
you from speaking and acting in harmony
with it always end quote so I realized
that this subject is a comply
one and that there's more to say about
it so I might talk about it more in the
future thank you for watching
[Music]
you